---
title: linux - How does "cat << EOF" work in bash? - Stack Overflow
date: 2020-11-13
src_link: https://www.notion.so/How-does-cat-EOF-work-in-bash-Stack-Overflow-ab0b4827446b4f64ab39f09c0d7b26f2
src_date: '2020-11-13 14:56:00'
gold_link: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2500436/how-does-cat-eof-work-in-bash
gold_link_hash: 0d1456f90163582d86629603da3761e8
tags:
- '#host_stackoverflow_com'
---


### Quotes prevent parameter expansion


Without quotes:



```
a=0
cat <<EOF
$a
EOF

```

Output:



```
0

```

With quotes:



```
a=0
cat <<'EOF'
$a
EOF

```

or (ugly but valid):



```
a=0
cat <<E"O"F
$a
EOF

```

Outputs:



```
$a

```

### Hyphen removes leading tabs


Without hyphen:



```
cat <<EOF
<tab>a
EOF

```

where `<tab>` is a literal tab, and can be inserted with `Ctrl + V <tab>`


Output:



```
<tab>a

```

With hyphen:



```
cat <<-EOF
<tab>a
<tab>EOF

```

Output:



```
a

```

This exists of course so that you can indent your `cat` like the surrounding code, which is easier to read and maintain. E.g.:



```
if true; then
    cat <<-EOF
    a
    EOF
fi

```

Unfortunately, this does not work for space characters: POSIX favored `tab` indentation here. Yikes.


### POSIX 7


kennytm quoted `man bash`, but most of that is also POSIX 7: [http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/V3\_chap02.html#tag\_18\_07\_04](http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/V3_chap02.html#tag_18_07_04) :



> The redirection operators "<<" and "<<-" both allow redirection of lines contained in a shell input file, known as a "here-document", to the input of a command.
> 
> 
> The here-document shall be treated as a single word that begins after the next `<newline>` and continues until there is a line containing only the delimiter and a `<newline>`, with no `<blank>` characters in between. Then the next here-document starts, if there is one. The format is as follows:
> 
> 
> 
> ```
> [n]<<word
>     here-document
> delimiter
> 
> ```
> 
> where the optional n represents the file descriptor number. If the number is omitted, the here-document refers to standard input (file descriptor 0).
> 
> 
> If any character in word is quoted, the delimiter shall be formed by performing quote removal on word, and the here-document lines shall not be expanded. Otherwise, the delimiter shall be the word itself.
> 
> 
> If no characters in word are quoted, all lines of the here-document shall be expanded for parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. In this case, the `<backslash>` in the input behaves as the `<backslash>` inside double-quotes (see Double-Quotes). However, the double-quote character ( '"' ) shall not be treated specially within a here-document, except when the double-quote appears within "$()", "``", or "${}".
> 
> 
> If the redirection symbol is "<<-", all leading `<tab>` characters shall be stripped from input lines and the line containing the trailing delimiter. If more than one "<<" or "<<-" operator is specified on a line, the here-document associated with the first operator shall be supplied first by the application and shall be read first by the shell.
> 
> 
> When a here-document is read from a terminal device and the shell is interactive, it shall write the contents of the variable PS2, processed as described in Shell Variables, to standard error before reading each line of input until the delimiter has been recognized.