---
aliases:
- https://untools.co/thinking-tools-guide
- https://untools.co/thinking-tools-guide/
title: How to choose the right thinking tool | Untools
date: 2023-08-09
src_link: https://www.notion.so/How-to-choose-the-right-thinking-tool-Untools-7e9ecac4e4754fc2ba883eb077663512
src_date: '2023-08-09 15:58:00'
gold_link: https://untools.co/thinking-tools-guide/
gold_link_hash: 2c7d4c3716a05de687349b9d10afecac
tags:
- '#host_untools_co'
---


Prompt questions
----------------


When you find yourself in front of a problem, decision or a system, you can ask yourself these prompt questions. They will point you to the right tool for you.




| **Question** | **Recommended tool** |
| --- | --- |
| Am I only thinking of ideal solutions? | [Inversion](/inversion/) |
| Can I break this problem down? | [Issue trees](/issue-trees/) |
| Do I need an innovative solution to a complex problem? | [First principles](/first-principles/) |
| Am I solving the right problem? | [Abstraction laddering](/abstraction-laddering/) |
| How do I come up with a creative solution? | [Productive Thinking model](/productive-thinking-model/) |
| What kind of decision am I making? | [Hard choice model](/hard-choice-model/) |
| Which option from these is the best one? | [Decision matrix](/decision-matrix/) |
| What would be the long-term consequences of this decision? | [Second-order thinking](/second-order-thinking/) |
| Am I jumping to conclusions? | [Ladder of inference](/ladder-of-inference/) |
| How should I respond to this situation? | [Cynefin framework](/cynefin-framework/) |
| What should I be working on right now? | [Eisenhower matrix](/eisenhower-matrix/) |
| How does this system work? | [Connection circles](/connection-circles/) |
| Why is X happening? | [Iceberg model](/iceberg-model/) |


Problem-solving tools
---------------------


### Avoid worst scenarios


If you're working on a high-stakes problem, you might want to focus on specifically avoiding bad solutions.


[Inversion](/inversion) is a tool to make you see the problem from a different angle and avoid possible mistakes or bad outcomes.


### Break the problem down


It often helps to break big and complex problems into smaller, more manageable ones.


[Issue trees](/issue-trees) allow you to do this in a systematic way. It's great to tackle the problem in a "divide and conquer fashion".


Then there are [first principles](/first-principles) which focus on identifying the fundamental principles underlying a given problem. You can then build an original solution from these principles rather than from the initial problem statement.


### Frame the problem differently


[Abstraction laddering](/abstraction-laddering) will help you find alternative and innovative solutions by defining a the right problem (of which your initial problem might only be a subset of). You can [get a worksheet](https://gumroad.com/l/untools-worksheets) to get started with this tool.


### Come up with creative solutions


[Productive thinking model](/productive-thinking-model/) gives you a six-step framework that will help you find creative solutions to the problems you're solving. It does that thanks to structured, critical thinking.


Decision-making tools
---------------------


### Figure out what kind of a decision you're making


[Hard choice model](/hard-choice-model) is for you seeing the type of decision in front of you so that you can move forward with it more efficiently. If it's a no-brainer, you'll know to make the decision quickly rather than correctly. For hard or big decisions, you might need to dig deeper (tools below will help you).


### Choose the best option


[Decision matrix](/decision-matrix) is great for **weighing up different factors and identifying the best option**. If you're looking for picking a clear winner based on various factors, this tool is for you.


### Analyze before you commit


[Second-order thinking](/second-order-thinking) will help you **consider a specific option** and what the deeper or **long-term consequences** of choosing it might be.


[Ladder of inference](/ladder-of-inference) is another tool to help you see if there's a gap in your thinking before you commit to a decision. With this tool, you'll avoid jumping to conclusions too early and make decisions based on reality.


There are [worksheets](https://gumroad.com/l/untools-worksheets) for both of these tools.


### Understand the situation before choosing a response


Sometimes, you need a little time to assess the situation so that you can choose the best response. [Cynefin framework](/cynefin-framework) is an excellent tool for that.


It helps you to **categorize a situation and point you to the most appropriate response**.


### Prioritize


This is really a subset of decision-making: **"What should I be working on right now?"**


A great prioritization tool is the [Eisenhower matrix](/eisenhower-matrix). It will enable you to prioritize your actions and tasks by importance and urgency. You can get the [Eisenhower matrix as a worksheet](https://gumroad.com/l/untools-worksheets) too.


Systems-thinking tools
----------------------


### Understand a system


To **learn more about a system**, I recommend starting with the [Connection circles](/connection-circles).


It's a great tool to map different elements of a system or a story and the relationships between them. You can get started with a [Connection circles worksheet](https://gumroad.com/l/untools-worksheets).


**The key benefit of** **connection circles is that they expose feedback loops** (both [balancing](/balancing-feedback-loop) and [reinforcing](/reinforcing-feedback-loop) loops). You can then move on to learning about those loops to really understand what's going on in the system.


### Uncover causes of events


If you're looking to **uncover the root causes of some event**, use the [Iceberg model](/iceberg-model).


It's a four-level model that allows you to see beyond what's obvious and think about the patterns, structures and mental-models that really drive the surface-level events. There's also a handy [Iceberg model worksheet](https://gumroad.com/l/untools-worksheets) to help you.