---
title: How Complex Systems Fail
date: 2023-02-13
src_link: https://www.notion.so/How-Complex-Systems-Fail-e6b185e25e19458b9d5a13b81b0c5327
src_date: '2023-02-13 19:54:00'
gold_link: https://how.complexsystems.fail/
gold_link_hash: 2d9612f6a5ca5b33bb3c110b2804b5b0
tags:
- '#host_how_complexsystems_fail'
---

1. [Complex systems are intrinsically hazardous systems.](#1)
----------------------------------------------------------



 All of the interesting systems (e.g. transportation, healthcare, power
 generation) are inherently and unavoidably hazardous by the own
 nature. The frequency of hazard exposure can sometimes be changed but
 the processes involved in the system are themselves intrinsically and
 irreducibly hazardous. It is the presence of these hazards that drives
 the creation of defenses against hazard that characterize these
 systems.
2. [Complex systems are heavily and successfully defended against
 failure](#2)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------



 The high consequences of failure lead over time to the construction of
 multiple layers of defense against failure. These defenses include
 obvious technical components (e.g. backup systems, ‘safety’ features
 of equipment) and human components (e.g. training, knowledge) but also
 a variety of organizational, institutional, and regulatory defenses
 (e.g. policies and procedures, certification, work rules, team
 training). The effect of these measures is to provide a series of
 shields that normally divert operations away from accidents.
3. [Catastrophe requires multiple failures – single point failures are
 not enough.](#3)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 The array of defenses works. System operations are generally
 successful. Overt catastrophic failure occurs when small, apparently
 innocuous failures join to create opportunity for a systemic accident.
 Each of these small failures is necessary to cause catastrophe but
 only the combination is sufficient to permit failure. Put another way,
 there are many more failure opportunities than overt system accidents.
 Most initial failure trajectories are blocked by designed system
 safety components. Trajectories that reach the operational level are
 mostly blocked, usually by practitioners.
4. [Complex systems contain changing mixtures of failures latent within
 them.](#4)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 The complexity of these systems makes it impossible for them to run
 without multiple flaws being present. Because these are individually
 insufficient to cause failure they are regarded as minor factors
 during operations. Eradication of all latent failures is limited
 primarily by economic cost but also because it is difficult before the
 fact to see how such failures might contribute to an accident. The
 failures change constantly because of changing technology, work
 organization, and efforts to eradicate failures.
5. [Complex systems run in degraded mode.](#5)
-------------------------------------------



 A corollary to the preceding point is that complex systems run as
 broken systems. The system continues to function because it contains
 so many redundancies and because people can make it function, despite
 the presence of many flaws. After accident reviews nearly always note
 that the system has a history of prior ‘proto-accidents’ that nearly
 generated catastrophe. Arguments that these degraded conditions should
 have been recognized before the overt accident are usually predicated
 on naïve notions of system performance. System operations are dynamic,
 with components (organizational, human, technical) failing and being
 replaced continuously.
6. [Catastrophe is always just around the corner.](#6)
---------------------------------------------------



 Complex systems possess potential for catastrophic failure. Human
 practitioners are nearly always in close physical and temporal
 proximity to these potential failures – disaster can occur at any time
 and in nearly any place. The potential for catastrophic outcome is a
 hallmark of complex systems. It is impossible to eliminate the
 potential for such catastrophic failure; the potential for such
 failure is always present by the system’s own nature.
7. [Post-accident attribution to a ‘root cause’ is fundamentally
 wrong.](#7)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 Because overt failure requires multiple faults, there is no isolated
 ‘cause’ of an accident. There are multiple contributors to accidents.
 Each of these is necessarily insufficient in itself to create an
 accident. Only jointly are these causes sufficient to create an
 accident. Indeed, it is the linking of these causes together that
 creates the circumstances required for the accident. Thus, no
 isolation of the ‘root cause’ of an accident is possible. The
 evaluations based on such reasoning as ‘root cause’ do not reflect a
 technical understanding of the nature of failure but rather the
 social, cultural need to blame specific, localized forces or events
 for outcomes. [1](#footnote-1)




[1](#7) Anthropological field research provides
 the clearest demonstration of the social construction of the notion of
 ‘cause’ (cf. Goldman L (1993), The Culture of Coincidence: accident
 and absolute liability in Huli, New York: Clarendon Press; and also
 Tasca L (1990), The Social Construction of Human Error, Unpublished
 doctoral dissertation, Department of Sociology, State University of
 New York at Stonybrook)
8. [Hindsight biases post-accident assessments of human performance.](#8)
----------------------------------------------------------------------



 Knowledge of the outcome makes it seem that events leading to the
 outcome should have appeared more salient to practitioners at the time
 than was actually the case. This means that
 *ex post facto* accident analysis of human performance is
 inaccurate. The outcome knowledge poisons the ability of
 after-accident observers to recreate the view of practitioners before
 the accident of those same factors. It seems that practitioners
 “should have known” that the factors would “inevitably” lead to an
 accident. [2](#footnote-2)
*Hindsight bias remains the primary obstacle to accident
 investigation, especially when expert human performance is involved.* 




[2](#8) This is not a feature of medical
 judgements or technical ones, but rather of all human cognition about
 past events and their causes.
9. [Human operators have dual roles: as producers & as defenders
 against failure.](#9)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 The system practitioners operate the system in order to produce its
 desired product and also work to forestall accidents. This dynamic
 quality of system operation, the balancing of demands for production
 against the possibility of incipient failure is unavoidable. Outsiders
 rarely acknowledge the duality of this role. In non-accident filled
 times, the production role is emphasized. After accidents, the defense
 against failure role is emphasized. At either time, the outsider’s
 view misapprehends the operator’s constant, simultaneous engagement
 with both roles.
10. [All practitioner actions are gambles.](#10)
--------------------------------------------



 After accidents, the overt failure often appears to have been
 inevitable and the practitioner’s actions as blunders or deliberate
 willful disregard of certain impending failure. But all practitioner
 actions are actually gambles, that is, acts that take place in the
 face of uncertain outcomes. The degree of uncertainty may change from
 moment to moment. That practitioner actions are gambles appears clear
 after accidents; in general, *post hoc* analysis regards these
 gambles as poor ones. But the converse: that successful outcomes are
 also the result of gambles; is not widely appreciated.
11. [Actions at the sharp end resolve all ambiguity.](#11)
------------------------------------------------------



 Organizations are ambiguous, often intentionally, about the
 relationship between production targets, efficient use of resources,
 economy and costs of operations, and acceptable risks of low and high
 consequence accidents. All ambiguity is resolved by actions of
 practitioners at the sharp end of the system. After an accident,
 practitioner actions may be regarded as ‘errors’ or ‘violations’ but
 these evaluations are heavily biased by hindsight and ignore the other
 driving forces, especially production pressure.
12. [Human practitioners are the adaptable element of complex
 systems.](#12)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------



 Practitioners and first line management actively adapt the system to
 maximize production and minimize accidents. These adaptations often
 occur on a moment by moment basis. Some of these adaptations include:
 (1) Restructuring the system in order to reduce exposure of vulnerable
 parts to failure. (2) Concentrating critical resources in areas of
 expected high demand. (3) Providing pathways for retreat or recovery
 from expected and unexpected faults. (4) Establishing means for early
 detection of changed system performance in order to allow graceful
 cutbacks in production or other means of increasing resiliency.
13. [Human expertise in complex systems is constantly changing](#13)
----------------------------------------------------------------



 Complex systems require substantial human expertise in their operation
 and management. This expertise changes in character as technology
 changes but it also changes because of the need to replace experts who
 leave. In every case, training and refinement of skill and expertise
 is one part of the function of the system itself. At any moment,
 therefore, a given complex system will contain practitioners and
 trainees with varying degrees of expertise. Critical issues related to
 expertise arise from (1) the need to use scarce expertise as a
 resource for the most difficult or demanding production needs and (2)
 the need to develop expertise for future use.
14. [Change introduces new forms of failure.](#14)
----------------------------------------------



 The low rate of overt accidents in reliable systems may encourage
 changes, especially the use of new technology, to decrease the number
 of low consequence but high frequency failures. These changes maybe
 actually create opportunities for new, low frequency but high
 consequence failures. When new technologies are used to eliminate well
 understood system failures or to gain high precision performance they
 often introduce new pathways to large scale, catastrophic failures.
 Not uncommonly, these new, rare catastrophes have even greater impact
 than those eliminated by the new technology. These new forms of
 failure are difficult to see before the fact; attention is paid mostly
 to the putative beneficial characteristics of the changes. Because
 these new, high consequence accidents occur at a low rate, multiple
 system changes may occur before an accident, making it hard to see the
 contribution of technology to the failure.
15. [Views of ‘cause’ limit the effectiveness of defenses against future
 events.](#15)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 Post-accident remedies for “human error” are usually predicated on
 obstructing activities that can “cause” accidents. These
 end-of-the-chain measures do little to reduce the likelihood of
 further accidents. In fact that likelihood of an identical accident is
 already extraordinarily low because the pattern of latent failures
 changes constantly. Instead of increasing safety, post-accident
 remedies usually increase the coupling and complexity of the system.
 This increases the potential number of latent failures and also makes
 the detection and blocking of accident trajectories more difficult.
16. [Safety is a characteristic of systems and not of their
 components](#16)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------



 Safety is an emergent property of systems; it does not reside in a
 person, device or department of an organization or system. Safety
 cannot be purchased or manufactured; it is not a feature that is
 separate from the other components of the system. This means that
 safety cannot be manipulated like a feedstock or raw material. The
 state of safety in any system is always dynamic; continuous systemic
 change insures that hazard and its management are constantly changing.
17. [People continuously create safety.](#17)
-----------------------------------------



 Failure free operations are the result of activities of people who
 work to keep the system within the boundaries of tolerable
 performance. These activities are, for the most part, part of normal
 operations and superficially straightforward. But because system
 operations are never trouble free, human practitioner adaptations to
 changing conditions actually create safety from moment to moment.
 These adaptations often amount to just the selection of a
 well-rehearsed routine from a store of available responses; sometimes,
 however, the adaptations are novel combinations or de novo creations
 of new approaches.
18. [Failure free operations require experience with failure.](#18)
---------------------------------------------------------------



 Recognizing hazard and successfully manipulating system operations to
 remain inside the tolerable performance boundaries requires intimate
 contact with failure. More robust system performance is likely to
 arise in systems where operators can discern the “edge of the
 envelope”. This is where system performance begins to deteriorate,
 becomes difficult to predict, or cannot be readily recovered. In
 intrinsically hazardous systems, operators are expected to encounter
 and appreciate hazards in ways that lead to overall performance that
 is desirable. Improved safety depends on providing operators with
 calibrated views of the hazards. It also depends on providing
 calibration about how their actions move system performance towards or
 away from the edge of the envelope.