---
title: Data and Database Tools Catalog - DBMS Tools
date: 2023-03-08
src_link: https://www.notion.so/Data-and-Database-Tools-Catalog-DBMS-Tools-1519db135b664662b86814f2db3e901c
src_date: '2023-03-08 18:57:00'
gold_link: https://dbmstools.com/
gold_link_hash: 327f380495835e538c8320059bc0bd6c
tags:
- '#host_dbmstools_com'
---


Database Tools Catalog
======================



[Data modeling tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/data-modeling-tools)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of data modeling and database design tools.  





Data modeling is the process of creating and analyzing data models for resources stored in a database. The Data Model is an abstract model that standardizes the data description, data semantic, and consistency constraints of data. Its main purpose is to represent the types of data within a system, the relationships between objects, and its attributes. The data model helps to understand what data is needed and how data should be organized. It is like a blueprint for an architect to better understand what is being created.



[Data catalog tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/data-catalogs)
--------------------------------------------------------------------


List of data catalogs tools   





Data catalog is a structured collection of data used by an organization. It is a kind of data library where data is indexed, well-organized, and securely stored. Most data catalog tools contain information about the source, data usage, relationships between entities as well as data lineage. This provides a description of the origin of the data and tracks changes in the data to its final form. 



[Data dictionary tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/data-dictionary-tools)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of tools that enable design and building of data dictionaries .  





Data Dictionary is a set of important information about data used within an organization (metadata). This information includes names, definitions, and attributes about data, owners, and creators of assets. Data Dictionary tools provide insights into meaning and purposes of data elements. They add useful aliases about the scope and characteristics of data elements, as well as the rules for their usage and application. 



[Business Glossary tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/business-glossary-tools)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of tools that help build, maintain an share business glossaries.  





Business Glossary is a collection of definitions and terms used within a business unitorganization. It is not used to define data, but rather to define what a particular term means from a business perspective. The definitions are mapped and logically linked to entities in the database. This enables structured communication between teams and allows them to reveal potential errors resulting from incorrect nomenclature. 



[Data compare tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/data-compare-tools)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of data compare, synchronization and migration tools.  





Data comparison is a process to inspect the structural differences between the source database and the target one. To carry out the comparison process, databases must meet the conditions of compatibility. However, some comparison tools have the ability to synchronize resources whose original schemas did not match each other.



[Data democratization tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/data-democratization-tools)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Data democratization tools enable the access of data by anyone in the organization, regardless of their role or technical knowledge, in order to make data-informed decisions. It's a crucial element which eliminates gatekeepers and bottlenecks that they create in the company.   






[Data discovery tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/data-discovery-tools)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


Data enables companies to make informed decisions and understand needs of the customer and the business. In order to leverage data, data discovery tools help organizations visualize, analyze and get insights from it. They start by collecting data from multiple sources to then consolidate, classify, and catalog it into a single repository to simplify its evaluation. 




[Data Governance tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/data-governance-tools)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of data governance tools   





Data governance is a strategy of handling data within an organization. It is a set of rules, policies, standards, practices etc. which main purpose is to ensure data has a high quality and integrity, is safely stored and there are no ambiguities in meaning of common terms. Applying this strategy is a long process, engaging whole organization, especially IT and data consuming departments. There are certain data governance tools which helps applying these theoretical plans in real life. 



[Data intelligence tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/data-intelligence-tools)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Data intelligence tools refer to the artificial intelligence and machine learning tools used by companies in order to analyze and transform data into information that is valuable and relevant for improving the company's operations.   






[Data lineage tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/data-lineage-tools)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------


Data lineage tools are software that allows to extract, view and analyze data lineage. Data lineage is the process of understanding and visualizing data flow from the source to different destinations. It allows to create a map of the data journey through the entire ecosystem. 




[Data literacy tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/data-literacy-tools)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


Data literacy tools empower employees to read, work with, analyze, and communicate with data. It enables them to ask the right questions and build knowledge in order to communicate meanings through data. Data skills are now essential for any role and the lack of data literacy within the company can lead to misinterpretation and misrepresentation of the facts. 




[Data observability tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/data-observability-tools)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Data observability tools help the company track and understand the state of its data at any given time and provide it with full insight into their data pipelines. They also allow them to identify, monitor and troubleshoot errors in order to minimize data issues and improve high data quality. 




[Data profiling tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/data-profiling-tools)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


Data Profiling tools allow analyzing, monitoring, and reviewing data from existing databases in order to provide critical insights. Data profiling can help organizations improve data quality and decision-making process by identifying problems and addressing them before they arise. 




[Data quality tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/data-quality-tools)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------


Data quality tools measure how good and useful a data set is to serve its intended purpose. High quality data can lead to better decision-making and faster insights as well as reduce the costs of identifying and dealing with bad data in the system. It can also save time and allow companies to focus on more important tasks.   






[Database design tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/database-design-tools)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of tools that allow for the design of a database.  





Database design is a set of activities aimed at improving the development, implementation, and maintenance of an enterprise data management system. Its main goal is to reflect the outline of the database system into real models: physical and logical. Database designers determine what data is to be stored inside the database, and how objects are to be related to each other.



[Database diagram / Reverse Engineering tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/database-diagram-tools)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of database ER diagram (ERD) / schema visualization / reverse engineering tools .




[Database documentation generators](https://dbmstools.com/categories/database-documentation-generator-tools)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of tools that automatically generate documentation for your database. For more advanced capabilities see [Database Documentation Tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/database-documentation-tools)




[Database documentation tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/database-documentation-tools)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of tools that allow the documentation (e.g. with descriptions) of schema of your databases.  





Database documentation is a set of descriptions of the data, that facilitate management, maintenance, and retrieval of resources. Documentation can take many forms, however, it usually acts as a data catalog that holds detailed information about the table schema, all relationships, data types, etc. Description of datasets as well as single data objects also is referred to as metadata (data about the data). 



[Extended properties editors](https://dbmstools.com/categories/sql-server-extended-properties-editors)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of tools that allow editing of SQL Server extended properties .  

**Direct** - read and save extended properties from SQL Server database.  

**Repository** - edit metadata in separate repository and enable synchronization.  

**Custom fields** - whether tool enables editing custom extended properties, apart MS\_Description.




[GDPR compliance software](https://dbmstools.com/categories/gdpr-compliance-software)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of GDPR compliance tools   





Collecting, storing, and processing data of the EU citizens have changed on May 25, 2018, when European Parliament decided to replace Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC with General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This new law has placed more emphasis on consumer data protection and gave consumers greater control over their personal information. Complying with these rules gets complex as more customers’ data is collected and processed. Following GDPR Compliance software can help to simplify and speed up this tedious process. 



[GUI tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/gui-tools)
-------------------------------------------------------


Graphical user interface (GUI) tools consist of an interface that includes visual components such as buttons or icons, through which the user interacts with electronic devices. The biggest advantage of graphical user interface is an improvement in usability for the average person. It gives the ability to perform various tasks on an electronic device, without any programming knowledge.   






[Metadata Management tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/metadata-management-tools)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of metadata management tools   





Metadata management tool is a solution that supplements the data stored by the enterprise environment with useful information. Proper metadata management is a crucial factor to make information searchable, easy to locate and understand. Such tools add meaningful context to raw data, making it convenient to discover even by non-IT members of an organization.



[PL/SQL documentation tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/pl-sql-documentation-tools)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of documentation generators for Oracle PL/SQL code .




[Reference Data Management tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/reference-data-management-tools)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Reference data management tools help manage and bring consistency to your data. They enable business users to aggregate data quickly and understand the overall condition of the business. Reference data tends to be overlooked in many enterprises but although its amount in most organizations is relatively small, it can cause a major difference in data management. 




[Schema compare tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/schema-compare-tools)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of database schema compare and synchronization tools.




[Sensitive data discovery tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/sensitive-data-discovery-tools)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of sensitive data discovery tools   





In recent years many international organizations, countries, states etc. have introduced strict regulations regarding sensitive data storing and processing (GDPR in EU, CCPA in California state or PDBP in India just to name a few) to ensure that companies and organizations handle personal information correctly. This should motivate organizations to revise their data protection policies and identify all private data they collect and process. Invaluable help with this tedious task are sensitive data discovery tools.



[SQL Lineage Tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/sql-lineage-tools)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------




[SQL Parsing Tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/sql-parsing-tools)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------




[SSAS documentation tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/ssas-documentation-tools)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of SQL Server Analysis Services (OLAP server) documentation tools .




[SSIS documentation tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/ssis-documentation-tools)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of SQL Server Integration Services (ETL) documentation tools.  





SSIS stands from SQL Server Integration Services and is a platform that focuses on creating enterprise-level data integration and data transformation solutions. As a component of Microsoft SQL Server database software , it is commonly used for data integration and data transformation tasks. Proper operation requires multiple teams to work together. Without proper documentation development, maintenance, and retrieval tasks become demanding and time-consuming. This is where SSIS documentation tools come into play.



[Version control tools](https://dbmstools.com/categories/version-control-tools)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of source version control tools .  

**State-based tools** - generate the scripts for database upgrade by comparing database structure to the model (etalon).  

**Migration-based tools** - help/assist creation of migration scripts for moving database from one version to next.