---
title: 'GitHub - adxsoft/logseq-query-builder-plugin: A logseq plugin that generates
  advanced queries from simple commands'
date: 2023-03-11
src_link: https://www.notion.so/GitHub-adxsoft-logseq-query-builder-plugin-A-logseq-plugin-that-generates-advanced-queries-from-s-b52765993d4f4cf7a76f2d46feb553d2
src_date: '2023-03-11 08:23:00'
gold_link: https://github.com/adxsoft/logseq-query-builder-plugin
gold_link_hash: 37a8701a731654b6b96396afa1beaaa2
tags:
- '#host_github_com'
---


Logseq Query Builder Plugin
===========================


* builds advanced logseq queries from [Simple Commands](#simple-commands) contained in a logseq code block.
* Choosing **Advanced Query Builder** in the code blocks menu (right click on block's bullet)
	+ will generate an advanced query in a **new** child block
	+ You can alter the code block and generate another query which will add another new child block.
	+ In this way you can experiment with generating multiple advanced queries.


Detailed Documentation
----------------------


Can be found [here](https://github.com/adxsoft/docs-logseq-query-builder-plugin)


### Do not use tabs in commands


*Note. as this code also supports the web site at [https://adxsoft.github.io/logseqadvancedquerybuilder/](https://adxsoft.github.io/logseqadvancedquerybuilder/) the use of tabs for indentation of the simple commands is not possible*
So for consistency between the online tool and the plugin you can use any number of leading spaces but the indentations must be consistent. I would suggest either two or four spaces is a good indentation value.


Installation
------------


### Preparation


* Click the 3 dots in the righthand corner and go to **Settings**.
* Go to **Advanced** and enable **Plug-in system**.
* Restart the application.
* Click 3 dots and go to Plugins (or `Esc t p`).


### Install plugin from the Marketplace (recommended)


* Click the `Marketplace` button and then click `Plugins`.
* Find the plugin and click `Install`.


### Install plugin manually


* Click the green Code button above and download the zip
* Unzip it into a folder
* Click `Load unpacked plugin`, and select the folder where the plugin code was unzipped


Technical Information
---------------------


* Originally the online tool was developed using pyscript and redeveloped in javascript.
* To ensure consistency between the online tool and the plugin the javascript code is shared.
	+ A variable called ***mode*** is set to *logseq-plugin*, *website* or *local*.
	+ All modes use index.js as common code
	+ **mode *logseq-plugin***
	\* will operate as a logseq plugin
	\* has its own *index.html* and *package.json* file
	\* files are contained in the *plugin-dist* folder
	+ **mode *website***
	\* will operate as the online tool
	\* has its own *index.html* and *package.json* file
	\* files are contained in the *website-dist* folder
	+ **mode *local***
	\* will operate locally
	\* has its own *index.html* and *package.json* file
	\* files are contained in the main folder
	\* has a *index.test.js* file which is used for unit testing with the Jest Testing Library - the index.test.js file is contained in the repository for the online tool at


Releases
--------


* v0.1
	+ Original release - Dec 30th 2022
* v0.7
	+ First release to the logseq marketplace 23rd Feb 2023