---
title: GitHub - dalcantara7/obsidian-auto-moc
date: 2024-01-01
src_link: https://www.notion.so/GitHub-dalcantara7-obsidian-auto-moc-31ada43f902845649dbd2aed5bc250b2
src_date: '2024-01-01 16:42:00'
gold_link: https://github.com/dalcantara7/obsidian-auto-moc
gold_link_hash: 5b890711bd345005b7adae2c9388f092
tags:
- '#host_github_com'
---

AutoMOC for Obsidian
====================


This plugin is designed to make the maintenance of MOCs a simpler process.   



When taking notes, one may forget to provide the backlink to the MOC for which a new note was linked. Over time this leads to many purely directional links. MOCs may miss many notes they are linked to simply by the user forgetting. A similar problem is found for those users who use tags to group notes and want to maintain a running list of those notes.  



This plugin imports missing linked mentions, tagged mentions, or alias references into the current note at the current cursor location.   
  



TL;DR the plugin provides a quick way to link back to all linked or tagged mentions for a given note.
  



Usage
-----


There are three commands that are currently supported:   



1. Import notes based on linked mentions


* The plugin checks for linked mentions matching the current file's name


1. Import notes based on tagged mentions


* The plugin checks for tags matching the tag selected from a modal popup
	+ Frontmatter tags are supported


1. Import notes for a specific alias


* The plugin check for notes matching the alias selected from a model popup
	+ Aliases are defined in the frontmatter of a note (now called "**Properties**")


After enabling this plugin, place your cursor in an editable markdown note where you want the links to be added.