---
title: 2sync | Sync Notion with Google Calendar, Todoist…
date: 2021-11-06
src_link: https://www.notion.so/Notion-Automations-Connect-Notion-with-your-Apps-c3a1f156ee264c0fb21bd397751ceed3
src_date: '2021-11-06 06:51:00'
gold_link: https://2sync.com/
gold_link_hash: 613ed35e3d345eb9a19c4ac859efe3cf
tags:
- '#host_2sync_com'
---


What is the difference between Notion Automations and 2sync?
 It's the same! We have recently changed our brand name to 2sync to reflect our bidirectional synchronization capability. 


What extra features does 2sync offer that are not available in Notion Calendar?
 Although Notion Calendar seems to offer services similar to 2sync, this is not really the case. 2sync offers extra features not currently available in the Notion Calendar app.

✨ Mainly, **we offer a complete 2-way sync that provides higher value because you can fully make Notion your playground and work with your events directly in your Notion databases**. **The data will sync between services in real time.**

Conversely, if you use Notion Calendar, no data flows between the Google calendars and Notion databases; there's no real synchronization happening. This limits how you can work with your events because importing your calendar events into a Notion database is not possible here.

In addition, we'll constantly expand our supported tools to sync with Notion and additional features. Stay tuned!



---

In other words:

✅ **2sync** offers a full 2-way sync feature in real time

✅ **2sync** allows working with events directly in Notion

✅ **2sync** can import events and tasks into a Notion database

❌ With **Notion Calendar,** no data flow or sync happens between your Notion databases and your calendars

❌ Importing events directly into a Notion database is not possible with **Notion Calendar**

❌ You can't work directly in your Notion database to sync your events to external calendars using **Notion Calendar**



---

Check our complete article comparing 2sync and Notion Calendar here: [https://2sync.com/blog/2sync-vs-notion-calendar](https://2sync.com/blog/2sync-vs-notion-calendar)


Is this service affiliated with Notion?
 We love Notion and use it daily, but **we are not directly affiliated with them**.

There are many automation opportunities within Notion and your apps, and several integrations can make you organize your personal and professional life in a much better way. For this reason, we decided to launch 2sync.

We first focused on the Google Calendar automation to make it sync with Notion smoothly using Notion's official API, and then we continued with Todoist. We are now working on several automations that will be launched in the future. 

Stay tuned to learn more!


What does refresh frequency mean?
 Due to technical limitations from Notion, we cannot know exactly when an entry has been updated. As a workaround, we check the whole dataset at a certain frequency (refresh frequency) to see if there are any new changes.

You can still force the sync manually when you connect to your account and select your automation.


Do you still have the Zapier & Notion automation?
 We discontinued the Zapier & Notion automation we used to have as we're no longer supporting the unofficial Notion API.

Now that Notion has an official API, we are working on [building an automation service](https://2sync.com/request-advanced) without relying on any third-party tool.


Do you support multiple automations per account?
 Yes, we support multiple automations for every account, provided you get the **Premium** or **Pro** plan. 

The maximum number of automations on an account depends on the pricing plan you choose:

* **Solo**: 1 automation
* **Premium**: Up to 3 automations
* **Pro:** Up to 10 automations

👉 [See more details on our pricing plans](https://2sync.com/#pricing)


Will the upcoming automations be included in the pricing?
 Yes, [upcoming automations](https://2sync.com/feature-requests) will be included in the current pricing plans.

The **Solo** plan is aimed at users who only need one automation, but you will have the chance to **switch between upcoming automations** if you decide to use any other offered on 2sync.

Our **Premium** or **Pro** plans offer up to 3 and 10 active automations, respectively.

👉 [See more details on our pricing plans](https://2sync.com/#pricing)