---
title: Kill the Newsletter!
date: 2023-04-20
src_link: https://www.notion.so/Kill-the-Newsletter-61a6a3dd2bc64ea1b1d7bc3db1009b0d
src_date: '2023-04-20 19:50:00'
gold_link: https://kill-the-newsletter.com/
gold_link_hash: 6fda139e7cbb5a8d8018dd9d4182f3fc
tags:
- '#host_kill-the-newsletter_com'
---


[Kill the Newsletter!](/)
=========================



Convert email newsletters into Atom feeds





[By Leandro Facchinetti](https://leafac.com) |
 [Source](https://github.com/leafac/kill-the-newsletter) |
 [Report Issue](mailto:kill-the-newsletter@leafac.com) | [Patreon](https://patreon.com/leafac) ·
 [PayPal](https://paypal.me/LeandroFacchinettiEU) ·
 [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/leafac)






---


How does Kill the Newsletter! work?
-----------------------------------



 Create a feed with the form above and Kill the Newsletter!
 provides you with an email address and an Atom feed. Emails that
 are received at that address are turned into entries in that
 feed. Sign up to a newsletter with that address and use your
 feed reader to subscribe to that feed.
 


How do I confirm my newsletter subscription?
--------------------------------------------



 In most cases when you subscribe to a newsletter the newsletter
 publisher sends you an email with a confirmation link. Kill the
 Newsletter! converts that email into a feed entry as usual, so
 it appears in your feed reader and you may follow the
 confirmation link from there. Some newsletter publishers want
 you to reply to an email using the address that subscribed to
 the newsletter. Unfortunately Kill the Newsletter! doesn’t
 support this scenario, but you may contact the newsletter
 publisher and ask them to verify you manually.
 


Why can’t I subscribe to a newsletter with my Kill the
 Newsletter! email?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------



 Some newsletter publishers block Kill the Newsletter!. You may
 contact them to explain why using Kill the Newsletter! is
 important to you and ask them to reconsider their decision, but
 ultimately it’s their content and their choice of who has access
 to it and by what means.
 


How do I share a Kill the Newsletter! feed?
-------------------------------------------



 You don’t. The feed includes the identifier for the email
 address and anyone who has access to it may unsubscribe you from
 your newsletters, send you spam, and so forth. Instead of
 sharing a feed, you may share Kill the Newsletter! itself and
 let people create their own Kill the Newsletter! feeds. Kill the
 Newsletter! has been designed this way because it plays better
 with newsletter publishers, who may, for example, get statistics
 on the number of subscribers who use Kill the Newsletter!. Note
 that Kill the Newsletter! itself doesn’t track users in any way.
 


Why are old entries disappearing?
---------------------------------



 When Kill the Newsletter! receives an email it may delete old
 entries to keep the feed under a size limit, because some feed
 readers don’t support feeds that are too big.
 


Why isn’t my feed updating?
---------------------------



 Send an email to the address that corresponds to your Kill the
 Newsletter! feed and wait a few minutes. If the email shows up
 on your feed reader, then the issue must be with the newsletter
 publisher and you should contact them. Otherwise, please
 [report the issue us](mailto:kill-the-newsletter@leafac.com).
 


How do I delete my Kill the Newsletter! feed?
---------------------------------------------



 You don’t. If you’re no longer interested in a newsletter,
 unsubscribe from the publisher (typically you may do that by
 following a link in a feed entry), unsubscribe on the feed
 reader, and abandon the feed.
 


I’m a newsletter publisher and I saw some people subscribing
 with Kill the Newsletter!. What is this?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 Think of Kill the Newsletter! as an email provider like Gmail,
 but the emails get delivered through Atom feeds for people who
 prefer to read with feed readers instead of email. Also,
 consider providing your content through an Atom feed—your
 readers will appreciate it.