---
title: Listenlater.fm
date: 2021-05-13
src_link: https://www.notion.so/Listenlater-fm-29f544d38b36426d9dd8bff9d49763f3
src_date: '2021-05-13 21:00:00'
gold_link: https://www.listenlater.fm/
gold_link_hash: 8359ca0c450650c79a3d43875d136d92
tags:
- '#host_www_listenlater_fm'
---


**ListenLater.fm generates a personalized podcast feed for you to listen to**.
 You let it know about articles you'd like to read later.
 When you do, it adds a spoken version of the article to your feed for you to listen to whenever your ears are free.
 I recommend you try listening to this page with the audio player below to see how you like it.


1x speed
1.2x speed
1.4x speed
1.6x speed
1.8x speed
2x speed
**I use ListenLater.fm every day**, and want to share it with more people.
 I used to skim the headlines of a lot of essays online.
 I wanted to read them, but I always had an excuse not to.
 When I'd use other read-it-later services, articles would pile up because I didn't make time to sit down and read.


**ListenLater.fm is different**. 
 With my previous attempts at using read-it-later services, I'd never make time to read through my queue.
 I've already built up the habit of checking my podcast app for a new podcast, so I never forget about it.


Podcasts are a big part of my life — they let me listen to thoughtful, interesting content during my commute and while I'm doing chores.
 **ListenLater.fm doesn't replace podcasts, but it augments the podcast experience**, adding another set of things to listen to in your podcast player.


**There are so many amazing long form articles I never would have read if it weren't for ListenLater.**


Adding new things to listen to is simple.
 When you're on a computer, the easiest way to add new articles is through our **browser extensions**.
 When you're on your phone and want to add an article, it's simple to share an article via email.
 You can also use our bookmarklet to add new articles.
 


Listening's a breeze. 
 You get **your own custom podcast feed**, that you can subscribe to in any podcast app.
 Anything you send to ListenLater.fm will be kept there for you to listen to on your own time.
 


ListenLater.fm is **free to try forever**.
 You can download up to **5 articles each month**, completely free.
 If you'd like to download more than that, ListenLater.fm costs **$36/year** to add **as many articles as most users can listen to**†.
 I wish I could charge less, but cloud based text-to-speech isn't cheap, and this is as low as I can go without running at a loss.
 I hope you understand.


I made ListenLater.fm to scratch my own itch, and found it was extremely useful. I hope you do too.


— Christine



[Sign up for Early Access](/users/sign_up) 



† Up to 24 hours of audio each month.