---
aliases:
- https://windowtop.info/
title: WindowTop - Boost your multitasking with Always-on-Top, Interactive Picture-in-Picture
  & Crop, Opacity & Click-Through, Anchors, Dark Mode and more!
date: 2023-10-16
src_link: https://www.notion.so/WindowTop-Boost-your-multitasking-with-Always-on-Top-Interactive-Picture-in-Picture-Crop-Opaci-99b70c6c95af411ba20d0fe8680a7610
src_date: '2023-10-16 12:52:00'
gold_link: https://windowtop.info/
gold_link_hash: 8c2c143f47d2521d87d1e223e6b12038
tags:
- '#host_windowtop_info'
---




 A 

 ayce blue 


 2022-Dec-19 

 What I've been lookng for. 

 Been looking for a solution for PiP and always on top for a long time. This app is perfect. It does exactly what I have been looking for. If I could give it 10 stars I would.
 


---




 A 

 alt 


 2023-Jul-03 

 seems to be a pretty useful app 

 doesn't seem to be a virus seems to be very useful for me
 


---




 S 

 Sam 


 2022-Sep-10 

 Fabulous - Exceeding our expectations 

 An awesome feature which facilitates to save an ample time to concentrate on my regular official tasks
 


---




 W 

 WZTong 


 2022-Nov-13 

 Nice util
 


---




 L 

 lIllIllllIl 


 2022-Jul-05 

 Amazing and FREE! 

 This app is great and does what you need it to do! The best part is that it's free! I will continue to use it daily. The only thing I would like to see added is to be able to pin any window to the top, regardless if it has a border on the window or not. Some windows I have don't have borders, so I am not able to pin them.
 


---




 R 

 Ryan 


 2022-Jul-30 

 Recommend it. 

 It works as intended. Enjoying it!
 


---




 J 

 Jo-anne 


 2023-Mar-26 

 Great tool 

 Was glad I could use it on a locked down work PC
 


---




 R 

 Ryan 


 2022-May-04 

 Dedicated developer 

 Talented, too
 


---




 F 

 FanaticBreak330 


 2022-Feb-23 

 Just get it and save time 

 This app reduced my frustration so much I can't live without it! (Not exaggerating) 

I initially downloaded it to keep windows on top permanently but it offers so much more like making windows transparent or shrinking a window to a small preview on the screen. It makes switching between programs and windows easy and fast. The onscreen icons are also very useful because it makes it easy to identify different instances of the same window or program, like having 3 file explorer windows open. 

There are some changes that I would like to see that will move this app from great to perfect. The ability to park onscreen icons and shrinked windows permanently in a position without them moving around. Also better multi screen support. I also hardly ever use the Glass function because it seems to be buggy.
 


---




 M 

 Max 


 2023-Jul-04 

 Very useful, w room to grow. 

 App's useful for free, but the paid version really unlocks the potential w borders and transparency. Great ADD/ADHD productivity tool, cause you can use it (in conjunction w sticky notes) to basically highlight/draw a rectangle around a chunk of your screen. Once they add the ability to dim the rest of the screen, it'll be perfect!