---
title: Fast, Easy Website and HTML to PDF Converter via API | PDFShift
date: 2024-03-23
src_link: https://www.notion.so/Fast-Easy-Website-and-HTML-to-PDF-Converter-via-API-PDFShift-7cad1e3ec668456c9efc67f00e3f93de
src_date: '2024-03-23 15:06:00'
gold_link: https://pdfshift.io/
gold_link_hash: 8edbef85683d52a19c1c1e0c37d085e0
tags:
- '#host_pdfshift_io'
---

1. 1Can I try PDFShift for free?Yes. [Follow this link](/register) to create an account and get 50 credits per month for free.


You won’t be charged, and you don’t need to enter credit card details to get started.


Once you’ve created your account and logged in, access our API to convert up to 50 documents for free.
2. 2What can I do with PDFShift?PDFShift's API covers a broad range of tasks involving converting documents to PDF, grabbing screenshots, and generating Open Graph images. You can use PDFShift for invoice generation for your customers, export images from a graphics editor, and much more.
3. 3Can I try PDFShift without creating an account?Yes. Head to our [Playground](https://playground.pdfshift.io) to see how you can customize your document conversion output with code samples — whether it’s an image or a PDF.
4. 4How do you ensure high-quality conversions and service uptime?PDFShift runs on Chromium, which enables perfect rendering every time. As for uptime, our server infrastructure is structured to perform at its best even under high stress, and has several redundancies built in. As a result, our customers experience 99.9% uptime. You can track our service availability on [our Status page](https://status.pdfshift.io/ "Visit our Status page").
5. 5I use Amazon S3 storage for my converted documents — how is my data privacy maintained?When you pass the "filename" parameter while processing HTML content, we store your resulting documents at our Amazon's S3 storage. In this case, the PDF's content is subject to Amazon's privacy policy.


For increased privacy, PDFShift supports sending your documents straight to your own S3 storage. Find [our documentation here](https://status.pdfshift.io/ "Visit our Status page").
6. 6How do credits work, and how are conversions counted?PDFShift’s free and paid plans count usage on the basis of credits; each credit is good for one conversion of up to 5MB. That means if you convert one document that generates, say, a 200KB or 2MB PDF, it’ll be count as a single credit against your quota.


If you convert a document that exceeds 5MB, you’ll use additional credits towards the same document. For example, if a single document conversion works out to 9MB, that’ll count as 2 credits against your quota. Similarly, a single 14MB document will count as 3 credits.
7. 7What happens if I exceed my API request volume?We will automatically notify you at 50%, 80% and 100% of your credit usage. You can also enable our overage system to not be blocked after hitting 100% of your quota.
8. 8How does your overage system work?Every plan has an overage cost associated with it. When you go over the plan’s limit (say, 1,000 credits in a single month), all the credits you use above that limit will be multiplied by the overage cost, and you’ll be billed for that usage specifically in a separate invoice when your subscription comes up for renewal.


For example, let’s say you’re on the $24/month Boost plan which includes 2,500 monthly credits. If you use 2,700 credits in a given month, you’ll pay:


	* $24 for the 2,500 credits
	* 200 credits x $0.03 for conversions above your credit limit, which works out to $6That comes to a total of $30 for that month.
9. 9What if I have custom requirements?[Contact us](/contact "Contact us") via our form or email us, and we’ll do our best to accommodate your needs with the most suitable implementation.