---
aliases:
- https://www.numbeo.com/cost-of-living/in/Budapest
title: Cost of Living in Budapest. May 2024. Prices in Budapest
date: 2023-08-30
src_link: https://www.notion.so/Cost-of-Living-in-Budapest-Aug-2023-Prices-in-Budapest-860d984cc17f49709e07903173e64de4
src_date: '2023-08-30 18:21:00'
gold_link: https://www.numbeo.com/cost-of-living/in/Budapest
gold_link_hash: ab9b8428231f59e888728aaf18eb2c1f
tags:
- '#host_www_numbeo_com'
---


69 Comments so far 
on Feb 20, 2024: 

Is it safe to visit Budapest in 2024 with a family? There are lots of reports of crime and multiple dangerous neighbourhoods in and around the city centre, we are nervous to travel with children.


on Oct 06, 2023: 

Way over priced on everything high crime just like everywhere else.Budapest has never been a tourist destination anyway.


on Aug 13, 2023: 

hu on Aug 04

"350k is enough if you do not have very high standards:) and obviously you can rent cheaper flats, rooms as well, which starts around 100k/month"  


Do you live in Budapest??? It was 5-10 years ago when you could rent a 1 bedroom flat for 100HUF. Now it is about the double... So 350.000 is not very much to live here. Unfortunetely most of the hungarians earn something like that, but they do not live an easy life here...

on Aug 07, 2023: 

Looking forward to visit Hungary with my wife and 9yo child. 

But all those comments makes me a little bit nervous regarding safety.

on Aug 04, 2023: 

i wouldn’t fully agree with the last comment, 350k is enough if you do not have very high standards:) and obviously you can rent cheaper flats, rooms as well, which starts around 100k/month, and after that, you can still spend the rest on food, transportation etc.

obviously, this budget won’t allow you to spend lavishly, but, you can manage well and live well with such a monthly income

on May 28, 2023: 

Hi Faten, 

I believe you can hardly get by with that salary if you have to pay room rental fee. It is not impossible if you need to pay though. Yet keep in mind that food price are very high and you won't be able to save any.
Regards, 
Gabor

on May 23, 2023: 

I have a question for native Hungarians as a student who just got an internship in Budapest, I always loved and was fascinated by its beauty and history, and I would like to know if I can live off 350000 HUF a month as a salary from the company. I'm good with money and not a bigger spender and I manage my budget carefully. if so please answer me honestly. Thank you very much in advance.


on May 02, 2023: 

I wonder if those people who write here have ever been to the country? My God! Who thinks that Budapest is dangerous? Budapest is one of the safest city in Europe! Of course, if you get off the plane and immediately go to buy drugs and women, you might end up in the wrong neighborhood. Many people write very bad things here, which are not true. I have lived in the city for 20 years. I don't understand those who spend 400K HUF on food either. What do they eat, gold? Who rents an apartment for 2000€..and where...in the parliament? Who says that Hungarians are primitive and shoot in the street? My God! It would have been better not to see this page! I had no idea that people are so malicious! Please, if you come to Budapest, don't read anything here! Budapest is a very cool city!


on Apr 01, 2023: 

Could a single retired person live well on 2500 EUR netto in Budapest?

Or other cities in Hungary?
Is teaching English classes a possibility?

on Mar 28, 2023: 

Budapest has mostly lower prices with higher salaries than Athens, Greece. Wow!


on Mar 24, 2023: 

What will be salary/month for 10 years experienced technicians in Budapest - Electricians, Plumbers, Masons, Labors? Also for engineers - civil, mechanical, electrical.


on Jan 18, 2023: 

hoping to visit Hungary with my wife. Thanks for the info


on Nov 23, 2022: 

How much monthly salary should be to live in budapest for 4 member of family including all expenses.


on Nov 08, 2022: 

Your monthly income would need to be atleast 15,000 eur to accomplish that.International school per child averages 2,000 eur monthly not including school supplies which is 300 eur monthly per child. Remember the Hungarian government taxes income abroad at 17% which is normal.We live in Budapest anything outside of Budapest is much cheaper but infrastructure is severely lacking wouldn't recommend it.


on Oct 31, 2022: 

How much would be the perfect salary for family with 3 children in Budapest??? considering all the 3 children will go to international school..

How much is the school , house other expenses??  


Can anyone guide me on this please?  


thanks

on Oct 19, 2022: 

Hi, well the English speaking community varies really where you live and what is the group of people you interact. In Budapest there are lots of international companies, the younger generation (in their 30s and under) has quite a good coverage. Though you might run into troubles e.g. bus stations or basic shops and smaller groceries. In the city center you are quite ok, but if you leave Budapest - unless you leave for any university towns like, Pécs, Szeged, Debrecen, Székesfehérvár, Győr, or during the summer Balaton - you probably will have difficulties to find someone to have meaningful conversation with.


on Oct 10, 2022: 

What % of people speak English overall? And also what % speak English outside of cities?  



Thank you, I am grateful for any replies.

on Jul 09, 2022: 

Man, the majority of these comments are completely unhinged. Budapest is safer or just as safe as any major Western European city. The sketchiest parts do not even come close to the sketchiest parts of Paris for example.


on Jun 26, 2022: 

The apartment prices are totally out-of-date, not even close to current prices. Renting a 1 room apartment in the city center starts at 300k HUF.


on Jun 05, 2022: 

Today I paid 1500 For a bottle of water at Budapest airport. You might say, airports are always more expensive. Ok, the second airport I travelled to was Stockholm, 35 Kn for the same type of water here. That's the equivalent of 1315 Ft today. Are we serious here? Prices in this airport are cheaper than in Budapest. Can you guys illustrate how your data is gathered because I guarantee 100% that it's absolutely wrong. For a mediocre restaurant in Budapest you don't pay less than 4000 Ft nowadays. Please someone prove me wrong with receipts from regular places in Budapest city centre. I am not even going to start discussing rent and the other parameters. Can someone from you team look into the accuracy of this data? thank you!


on Jun 05, 2022: 

This data is completely outdated. You guys should know that companies are using your data to justify salaries and the numbers you are showing here are completely misleading. Very irresponsible to state "Last update: June 2022" when I could guarantee with receipts that those prices don't exist. Imported beer 800.00 Ft in a restaurant! you must me joking! Please let me know which restaurant doesn't charge you more than 1500 Ft nowadays for a beer and I will be their most recurrent customer.


on May 24, 2022: 

Hi Guys,  



13.2M HUF gross is a good salary in Budapest for 5+ yrs of experience moving from India?

on Mar 24, 2022: 

Hi, guys is a 16 million HUF/month gross a good salary in Budapest for 7+ years of experience moving from India?  



You will not earn 16 million in Hungary.
maybe 1,6 million which is very good, I only see thet chance to it if you are a consultant or programmer.

on Mar 20, 2022: 

bp is a neglected city.buildings crumbling everywhere.it was nice 100 years ago.even then ,not because ppl wanted nice buildings but it was the law to spend 20 % of your cost on the facade. just look behind front doors. all shitty .

it is also expensive unless u r a foreigner. takes 100 years work to save enough to buy a modest apartment. city is drab oct through may.greed everywhere

on Mar 20, 2022: 

Consumer Prices in Budapest are 40.01% higher than in Antalya (without rent)

Consumer Prices Including Rent in Budapest are 54.65% higher than in Antalya
Rent Prices in Budapest are 133.54% higher than in Antalya
Restaurant Prices in Budapest are 112.77% higher than in Antalya
Groceries Prices in Budapest are 68.96% higher than in Antalya

on Mar 17, 2022: 

Hi, guys is a 16 million HUF/month gross a good salary in Budapest for 7+ years of experience moving from India?


on Mar 17, 2022: 

Hi guys is 16HUF/month gross a good salary in budapest for 7+ years experience moving from India ?


on Mar 12, 2022: 

Is 1,200,000 per month salary enough for 2 people? If they want to do good savings also


on Mar 03, 2022: 

@PurplePeopleEater

500k gross or net? I live on about 460k net a month and it's perfectly comfortable. I spend about 175k on a nice one bedroom including utilities on the buda side, close to mom park. Granted, that's not considered downtown, but many downtown areas have cheaper housing than the greener buda side. I do cook a lot myself, but I don't buy the cheapest groceries; lots of fresh vegetables, plant-based milk, nuts, conrflakes, nice chocolate, that kind of stuff. Basically, I buy whatever I feel like. And I go out for a coffee/dinner/beers about once a week.
Sure, you can't buy clothing from fancier brands on a regular basis. But if you just want to have a good appartment, go out moderately and not worry too much about your groceries, 500k net is very doable in Budapest.

on Feb 10, 2022: 

France has more money, modern infrastructure, and high tech luxuries than Hungary will ever have.Hungary is primitive by far compared to France. Very low salaries are common throughout Hungary for good reason. Look at how Hungarians live in ramshackle dwellings outdated by atleast 50 years. Not to forget how Hungarians dress no tailored clothing right down to their primitive shoes that even animals wouldn't wear. Major hanus crimes happen daily which normally go unpunished in Hungaria.Many Hungarians seem to be allergic to hot water and soap. Body odor is plentiful in Hungaria and gladly displayed in public places


on Feb 07, 2022: 

@UrbanNomad : Don't get me wrong, I didn't say there wasn't criminality, I said tho that, especially when you are French, finding BP dangerous is just ridiculous ! Behave normally and cautiously, and nothing should happen, which is not all the time the case when being in big cities at home (Paris/Marseille/Lyon just to name a few).


on Jan 30, 2022: 

Who really wants to live in Budapest anyway? Nobody in their right mind would. The HUF currency like Hungary is continuing on a downward spiral to the point of no return. The land of nothingless, mismanaged over 35 years and it continues to get worse by the day not the year.Hungarians can forget about moving to the USA I've had my application just to visit USA almost 7 years now Hungarians aren't welcome in the United States anymore


on Jan 09, 2022: 

Rent in Bp is very expensive, the prices went up a lot in the last 5 years and salaries are not following that. Also HUF went down by about 20% (to EUR) in the last 3 years which resulted in increased prices of almost everything. And again, salaries do not follow that high inflation rate.


on Dec 18, 2021: 

Budapest has always been dangerous but believing people online that has never been there are getting visitors killed. I've been a taxi driver over 37 years I see alot of violent crimes throughout Budapest many times and its never slowed down.


on Dec 15, 2021: 

It's funny what frogs are telling about Budapest: probably they don't come from one of the many and dangerous banlieues of French cities, those places where Algerians and Africans beat the police when they are angry, I mean. Allez vous faire enculer avec vos mesonges!


on Nov 28, 2021: 

Crime rates aren't accurate listed here so they should be much high.Cost of living is also important obviously. Many move to Budapest to start a new life nothing wrong with that but most depend upon others online. People who believe crime statistics here are in for a terrifying experience once reality sets in especially in Budapest. Remote areas obviously have much less crime. Anyone interested in moving to Budapest should contact the main police department in Budapest in person. An accurate list of burglaries robberies rapes etc will be provided quarterly or annually. If unable to appear in person get their crime blotter website print it off and make your own decisions. Most promoters of Budapest tend to paint a rose picture of how safe Budapest is only to gain subscribers nothing more. FYI it's best to know crime statistics first before anything else no matter which country it is worldwide. Depending upon someone else's guess work concerning crime has ended many a person's life. So look at factual statistics concerning real crime statistics instead of being a statistic.  



 Anonymous police officer Budapest

on Nov 06, 2021: 

500k HUF/month/person is NOT enough for a decent living in downtown Budapest. Definitely not. Only the costs of a nice downtown apartment would take most of the budget.


on Oct 19, 2021: 

@Laci: Yes, criminality does not exist if one does not want to see it. If you spend most of your time on Vaci Utca or other posh neighborhood, you would probably never see serious crimes. But if you open your eyes and take an objective look at reality, you will realize that it is not as peaceful as you want it to be.

On another note you are right about the living costs, 500k is more than enough for a single person to live(decently) in the city center.

on Sep 04, 2021: 

As a French person myself, I'd love to know where the French guy from 01.01.21 comes from, so I can have a good laugh, probably from la Creuse or Meuse, in a 50 ppl village to find Budapest dangerous !  



This is simply a lie. Tho, you'll not be welcome in here if you behave shadily (shouting late in the evening for no reason, breaking stuff etc), which actually makes sense but some tourists tend to forget about it. It's holidays for you, it's home for others.  


As for people saying you need 800k net to live in Budapest, I'd love to have a break down of their expenses. Even spending your food budget at Culinaris and have an expat-built flat, you will not even come close to this number. 500k is more than comfortable to live in the city center.

on Aug 31, 2021: 

I have a family of 6 members with 4 daughters. I have an offer in Hungary , would 6,000 euro enough per month given international schooling for my daughters and 3 bedrooms rent in city center?


on Aug 26, 2021: 

Budapest is one of the most livable cities in Europe. The city has splendid architecture and refined culture. If you like to eat out and spend some time with your friends at a bar, it is affordable to do so in comparison with other European capitals. Plus, the Danube and the plenty of parks and forests offer a sense of connection to nature. How many cities do you know with a green island-oasis, like Margrit Island in the middle of a river? So, all in all, Budapest is rich in culture, safe, and Hungarians are decent people in general. If you want to find faults, you can find them everywhere as there is no perfect country. In the financial aspect, if you are employed in Hungary, you may not earn as much as you would in Nothern European countries. Yet, the cost of living is also relatively much lower than in those countries.


on Aug 11, 2021: 

Thanks for your valuable information. Hope see you soon ☺️


on Jun 23, 2021: 

Also, BP is far from my favorite city, but these comparisons with Tunis and France gave me a good laugh. Yes, everywhere is safe during the day, but you should avoid the shadiest areas at night (they are not in the city center).

Definitely safer than West EU cities. Also, there is practically no gun violence, the french guy much have been high as a kite and confused them with fireworks or something.

on Jun 23, 2021: 

I don't know what the standards of some people are, but minimal wage is 167 000 HUF in Hungary currectly, so you can scrape by with that (somehow). Accordingly, anything over 500 000 HUF would be enough to rent a nice flat and live a comfortable life, without having to worry about money too much. If that is not enough, then ask yourself why you need to spend several times as much money on yourself than the average local.


on Jun 19, 2021: 

How much salary will be better to live a good life in budapest. My employer offered me 1200k as a monthly out of which 66% will be my take home.


on Jun 03, 2021: 

What kind of crazy nonsense is this about BUD being "dangerous"?? Tbh I can see why foreigners from certain countries would think so based on what they see when wandering around at night. Sure, it can be quiet outside the central area especially during certain seasons, and you might come across a ranom person here or there which can startle some people, but I wouldn't call it dangerous and as a single female, I would say Tunis, while the ppl there are generally very friendly, I don't feel safe wandering around on my own as much as I would in BUD. 

Some districts not far outside the centre can seem seedy at night and there are homeless ppl making all kinds of noise but just walk past, don't make eye contact, and remember: homeless ppl are eveywhere in the world, especially in any big city. 
I live in Toronto where there are shootings and stabbings almost everyday. It wasn't always like this, and no one I know has been shot or stabbed but it goes to show that it really depends where you are. Here, it can happen anywhere, and in BUD if it's going to happen, it's not likely to happen in some random place. Not to mention, shootings and stabbings are pretty rare. 
BUD is an incredible city, and Hungary is beautiful! Even if your salary doesn't cover your monthly expenses, find a way to make it work or even just go for as long as you can last! BUD is that great~ I've been a few times and it's amazing!

on May 28, 2021: 

If you spend 2000 euros on renting an apartment, that must be a very luxurious one. I was renting 2 apartments in the 11th district (both around 40 sqm, 1 bedroom, 1 kitchen, 1 bathroom, with small entry hallway, excellent conditions) for 130k and 160k each (unfurnished and furnished, with all bills covered). They were close (1 busstop away) to Allee shopping centre and the M4 metro, a 100m away from the #4 and #6 trams. My food expenses were around 60k, but i don't go to restaurants a lot (aside from fast food), so no luxury eating.

We are now at 220k. Add 10k for the monthly pass for public transport. I did this on a 300k ft salary. No car. Single guy.
Even if i bump the numbers up to, let's say, 250k for the apartment, and 100k for the food, that's still well under the 500k ft (around 1400 euros) most people ask of here (unless ofc you're used to top luxury, which i'm not lol).
True, the closer you get to the heart of the city, and the more luxurious and less cheap the apartments get. But i still had leftover money to go to bars, concerts, do sports, ect.
The numbers on this site are fairly accurate.
As for safety: relatively safe, with a few places you should not go late at night (like Hős street, avoid even during the day :'D). But avoiding run-down places is generally a good idea, not a unique problem IMO.  


Source: me, a born-and-raised resident of budapest.

on May 04, 2021: 

I don't know why anybody says bullshitts, what an interest drives him to say these silly words here about Budapest, but Budapest is definitely not a primitive place and if you compare Budapest with Tunis, it is a different dimension. Budapest cleaner and safer than the most of west European cities. There is not a bad, or dangerous "no go " zone. There are advanced commercial and cultural facilities. There is no as same maintained building as in Germany or Austria but significantly more developed than Tunis or most of the place around the world. Budapest is not as cheap as was 10 years ago but, Budapest is still a cheap place compare with the west European cities.


on Mar 24, 2021: 

Sharing your name and work place isn't a wise thing to do especially here.


on Mar 23, 2021: 

I need tips where I can search for studio apartments for rent within 9th district in Budapest. Or, places near 9th district. Workplace will be Mill Park Office Building. Thank you


on Mar 18, 2021: 

My wife and I visited Budapest May 2018.We planned on staying two months but we left after five days.Compared to the UK it's very primitive we were told by our friends in the UK.Just the same we wanted to see for ourselves and our friends were right.So we ventured onward to Tunis,Tunisia which was like night and day overall compared to Budapest in every way. Medical care is top knotch in Tunis and cheap extremely clean and safe modern roads infrastructure and a good command for the English language.We purchased a beautiful spacious summer home in Tunis for a measly 32,000 pounds while there.


on Mar 16, 2021: 

A basic search on any website like Ingatlan, Alberlet or even Facebook groups are enough to see that the prices on here are very relatable to the actual market. Go seek help :)


on Mar 11, 2021: 

Anyone claiming that rent is on average 2000 euro per month is nothing but mentally retarded. It's so out of touch with reality that it's incredible that any can even consider putting those words on the internet.


on Feb 23, 2021: 

Hi, does 825,000 HUF (Gross salary) good enough for a family of 2 persons to have a healthy life in Budapest?


on Feb 19, 2021: 

I'm opening a strip club 2021 in Budapest I'm naming it BOOTYPEST.


on Feb 13, 2021: 

I'm not sure where some of the commenters live but it's certainly not Budapest that's for sure. The reason there isn't anybody out nowadays is the nationwide curfew from 8 pm. In the before times, the city centre was packed every night non stop.  



There are no random groups of people going around shooting stuff. That is simply a lie and it's amazing how you can even write such things down. Contrary to popular belief, the cops aren't quite so bribable, as many of them are young and despise bribery. Use your common sense people, don't believe such egregious made up lies from people that never lived in the city.

on Feb 06, 2021: 

Hi Anonymous   



I've lived in Budapest for 21 years now but I'm originally from Hampshire.€1300 would've been more than enough 10 years ago for all expenses including rent but not anymore.Fortunately I bought my house many years ago cheap in Budapest.€1300 would get you an efficiency unfurnished apartment quite far from downtown Budapest.Apartments average €2000 and up for a one bedroom apartment within 6km of the metro unfurnished.When I say unfurnished it's really unfurnished. A stove and refrigerator will be needed too which is normal.In answer to your question about €1300 being enough for two people to live the answer is NO.Thats not enough for one person,honestly.

on Feb 05, 2021: 

Hi everyone,  



My wife and I are moving to Budapest. Just us to. I met €1300 and she would still need to find work there.  


Is it possible to survive on this?

on Feb 04, 2021: 

France is much safer than Budapest always has been for this reason.Large unknown groups of people circulate throughout Budapest the majority unchecked. Security looking the other way only requires a small amount of money People run rapid.Notice how few locals are out at night on foot or driving.Theres a very good reason for that it's unsafe. I've never met anyone who could outrun a bullet but gunfire is normal especially at night.


on Feb 02, 2021: 

When some commenter from France says Budapest is dangerous (it is not) and goes back to Paris where there was bombing, cathedral set on fire, and vandalism by protesters. :D


on Dec 19, 2020: 

800,000 huf net minimum for a single person would cover all expenses depending upon lifestyle but 950,000 huf net each month would be much better. If you wanted to live an hour out of Budapest 546,000 net each month would allow you to scrape by barely.The numbers here aren't correct,I've lived in Budapest 5 years so I know.


on Dec 16, 2020: 

Hello,  



A single can live in Budapeste with 546.000 HUF (net) montlhy? Including rent

on Dec 13, 2020: 

None of costs listed here are accurate from food, entertainment rentals or even monthly salaries. Bump salaries 30% lower,food costs 25% higher, entertainment 50% higher depending upon the venue.Utilities should be 40% more.

I'm from Budapest and I know the costs of things.The only things that are accurate here are transportation via busses or taxies,and internet costs each month.Anyone can post anything online,however it's much different when one needs to budget for daily expenses as I do.

on Dec 02, 2020: 

Hi YD,  



I am assuming that you will be making 2700 EUR net and your wife is not working. This is around 965,000 HUF, which puts you well into the top 3% of earners in Hungary. Generally, this amount of money is the combined earnings of both parents for a middle class family in Hungary.  


Rent for a nice flat with two children will be about 250-300k HUF in a decent area, including bills.
Groceries for a family of four will be at least 150k, but if you want to eat healthy, then it is closer to 200-250k. If in addition you also want to eat out regularly, then around 300-350k will be needed.
Maintaining a car is relatively cheap, I think 50k a month should be enough if you only drive on weekends.  


Entertainment and holidays are relative, so I'm not going to give numbers. Basically, once you pay for a good flat, decent food and a car, you'll have about 1000EUR left over for holidays, entertainment, etc.  


If your wife doesn't work, you won't be exactly rich off of your salary, but it will be a good middle class life.  


I hope this helps.

on Nov 26, 2020: 

Hi guys,  



I am planning to move to Budapest with my wife and two daughters (2 and 5 y.o).
I'm trying to calculate if the salary around 2700 euro (net) would be enough to live comfortably.
Including house bills, grocery, entertainment, rent apartment, driving on the weekends, Preschool/Kindergarten for children and medicine, holidays, etc   


Thanks

on Oct 02, 2020: 

The information above is really quite out of date after the last 8 months


on Sep 06, 2020: 

I am planning to move to Budapest with wife and 9 years daughter. Let me know cost of leaving and howmuch salary I need so that i can accomadate daughter school and all other daily grosary and etc...end of the month i want save few mone


on Aug 16, 2020: 

Price for a 50g packet of Golden virginia tobacco? 10 pack?

Thanks

on Jun 08, 2020: 

@Pawan Kohli - hope this helps!  



- https://www.profession.hu/en
- https://www.cvonline.hu/en
- https://dreamjo.bs/en
- https://www.workania.hu/en/
- https://jobline.hu/