---
title: 'Showing Flow: Comparing Usability of Chord and Sankey Diagrams | Proceedings
  of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems'
date: 2023-04-26
src_link: https://www.notion.so/Showing-Flow-Comparing-Usability-of-Chord-and-Sankey-Diagrams-Proceedings-of-the-2023-CHI-Confere-94cee04a5fe44f49aa62b66962aa31e6
src_date: '2023-04-26 16:59:00'
gold_link: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3544548.3581119
gold_link_hash: b6660d098c335bcea3b853e6e79388ed
tags:
- '#host_dl_acm_org'
---

1. Yael Albo, Joel Lanir, Peter Bak, and Sheizaf Rafaeli. 2015. Off the radar: Comparative evaluation of radial visualization solutions for composite indicators. IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics 22, 1(2015), 569–578.
2. Robert Amar, James Eagan, and John Stasko. 2005. Low-level components of analytic activity in information visualization. In IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization, 2005. INFOVIS 2005. IEEE, 111–117.
3. Ruth Bollongino, Olaf Nehlich, Michael P Richards, Jörg Orschiedt, Mark G Thomas, Christian Sell, Zuzana Fajkošová, Adam Powell, and Joachim Burger. 2013. 2000 years of parallel societies in Stone Age Central Europe. Science 342, 6157 (2013), 479–481.
4. Mike Bostock. 2020. Directed Chord Diagram. https://observablehq.com/@d3/directed-chord-diagram
5. Michael Bostock, Vadim Ogievetsky, and Jeffrey Heer. 2011. D3 data-driven documents. IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics 17, 12(2011), 2301–2309.
6. Matthew Brehmer, Bongshin Lee, Petra Isenberg, and Eun Kyoung Choe. 2018. Visualizing ranges over time on mobile phones: a task-based crowdsourced evaluation. IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics 25, 1(2018), 619–629.
7. Nadieh Bremer. 2021. Using Data Storytelling with a chord diagram. https://www.visualcinnamon.com/2014/12/using-data-storytelling-with-chord/
8. Michael Burch, Fabian Beck, and Daniel Weiskopf. 2012. Radial Edge Splatting for Visualizing Dynamic Directed Graphs.. In GRAPP/IVAPP. 603–612.
9. Michael Burch, Felix Bott, Fabian Beck, and Stephan Diehl. 2008. Cartesian vs. radial–a comparative evaluation of two visualization tools. In International Symposium on Visual Computing. Springer, 151–160.
10. Michael Burch and Daniel Weiskopf. 2014. On the benefits and drawbacks of radial diagrams. In Handbook of human centric visualization. Springer, 429–451.
11. William S Cleveland and Robert McGill. 1984. Graphical perception: Theory, experimentation, and application to the development of graphical methods. Journal of the American statistical association 79, 387(1984), 531–554.
12. Frederik L Dennig, Maximilian T Fischer, Michael Blumenschein, Johannes Fuchs, Daniel A Keim, and Evanthia Dimara. 2021. ParSetgnostics: Quality Metrics for Parallel Sets. In Computer Graphics Forum, Vol. 40. Wiley Online Library, 375–386.
13. Sara Di Bartolomeo, Aditeya Pandey, Aristotelis Leventidis, David Saffo, Uzma Haque Syeda, Elin Carstensdottir, Magy Seif El-Nasr, Michelle A Borkin, and Cody Dunne. 2020. Evaluating the effect of timeline shape on visualization task performance. In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. 1–12.
14. Stephan Diehl, Fabian Beck, and Michael Burch. 2010. Uncovering strengths and weaknesses of radial visualizations—an empirical approach. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics 16, 6(2010), 935–942.
15. Diego Doval, Spiros Mancoridis, and Brian S Mitchell. 1999. Automatic clustering of software systems using a genetic algorithm. In STEP’99. Proceedings Ninth International Workshop Software Technology and Engineering Practice. IEEE, 73–81.
16. Geoffrey M Draper, Yarden Livnat, and Richard F Riesenfeld. 2009. A survey of radial methods for information visualization. IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics 15, 5(2009), 759–776.
17. Alberto Ferrari and Marco Russo. 2016. Introducing Microsoft Power BI. Microsoft Press.
18. Douglas J Gillan. 2000. A Componential Model of Human Interaction with Graphs. V: Using Pie Graphs to Make Comparisons. In Proceedings of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Annual Meeting, Vol. 44. SAGE Publications Sage CA: Los Angeles, CA, 3–439.
19. Joseph Goldberg and Jonathan Helfman. 2011. Eye tracking for visualization evaluation: Reading values on linear versus radial graphs. Information visualization 10, 3 (2011), 182–195.
20. Novi Handayani. 2021. Chord Diagram With Immigration Data. https://observablehq.com/@novi05211640000015/chord-diagram
21. Christopher Healey and James Enns. 2011. Attention and visual memory in visualization and computer graphics. IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics 18, 7(2011), 1170–1188.
22. Jeffrey Heer and Michael Bostock. 2010. Crowdsourcing Graphical Perception: Using Mechanical Turk to Assess Visualization Design. Proceedings of the 28th Annual Chi Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (2010), 203–212. https://doi.org/10.1145/1753326.1753357
23. Haoyan Huo, Ziqin Rong, Olga Kononova, Wenhao Sun, Tiago Botari, Tanjin He, Vahe Tshitoyan, and Gerbrand Ceder. 2019. Semi-supervised machine-learning classification of materials synthesis procedures. Npj Computational Materials 5, 1 (2019), 1–7.
24. Ross Ihaka and Robert Gentleman. 1996. R: a language for data analysis and graphics. Journal of computational and graphical statistics 5, 3 (1996), 299–314.
25. Mikel Iturbe, Inaki Garitano, Urko Zurutuza, and Roberto Uribeetxeberria. 2016. Visualizing Network Flows and Related Anomalies in Industrial Networks using Chord Diagrams and Whitelisting.. In VISIGRAPP (2: IVAPP). 101–108.
26. Amin Jalali. 2016. Reflections on the use of chord diagrams in social network visualization in process mining. In 2016 IEEE Tenth International Conference on Research Challenges in Information Science (RCIS). IEEE, 1–6.
27. Richard Johnsonbaugh and Martin Kalin. 1991. A graph generation software package. In Proceedings of the twenty-second SIGCSE technical symposium on Computer Science Education. 151–154.
28. Pierre Jolicoeur, Shimon Ullman, and Marilynn Mackay. 1986. Curve tracing: A possible basic operation in the perception of spatial relations. Memory & Cognition 14, 2 (1986), 129–140.
29. Kevin Jolly. 2018. Hands-on data visualization with Bokeh: Interactive web plotting for Python using Bokeh. Packt Publishing Ltd.
30. Stephen G Kobourov, Sergey Pupyrev, and Bahador Saket. 2014. Are crossings important for drawing large graphs?. In International Symposium on Graph Drawing. Springer, 234–245.
31. Asher Koriat and Joel Norman. 1985. Reading rotated words.Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance 11, 4(1985), 490.
32. Martin Krzywinski, Jacqueline Schein, Inanc Birol, Joseph Connors, Randy Gascoyne, Doug Horsman, Steven J Jones, and Marco A Marra. 2009. Circos: an information aesthetic for comparative genomics. Genome research 19, 9 (2009), 1639–1645.
33. Kevin C. Lam, Carl Gutwin, Madison Klarkowski, and Andy Cockburn. 2021. The Effects of System Interpretation Errors on Learning New Input Mechanisms. In Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (Yokohama, Japan) (CHI ’21). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 713, 13 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445366
34. Timothy R Levine and Craig R Hullett. 2002. Eta squared, partial eta squared, and misreporting of effect size in communication research. Human Communication Research 28, 4 (2002), 612–625.
35. Miriah Meyer, Tamara Munzner, and Hanspeter Pfister. 2009. MizBee: a multiscale synteny browser. IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics 15, 6(2009), 897–904.
36. Tamara Munzner, Eric Hoffman, K Claffy, and Bill Fenner. 1996. Visualizing the global topology of the MBone. In Proceedings IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization’96. IEEE, 85–92.
37. Jorge Dionisio Nunez Siri. 2019. AccuSyn: Using Simulated Annealing to Declutter Genome Visualizations. Ph. D. Dissertation. University of Saskatchewan.
38. Stephen Olejnik and James Algina. 2003. Generalized eta and omega squared statistics: measures of effect size for some common research designs.Psychological methods 8, 4 (2003), 434.
39. Wei Qi, Guy J Abel, Raya Muttarak, and Shenghe Liu. 2017. Circular visualization of China’s internal migration flows 2010–2015. Environment and Planning A: Economy and Space 49, 11 (2017), 2432–2436. https://doi.org/10.1177/0308518X17718375 arXiv:https://doi.org/10.1177/0308518X17718375
40. Ghulam Jilani Quadri and Paul Rosen. 2021. A survey of perception-based visualization studies by task. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics (2021).
41. Jessica Saben, Ying Zhong, Samantha McKelvey, Nafisa K Dajani, Aline Andres, Thomas M Badger, Horacio Gomez-Acevedo, and Kartik Shankar. 2014. A comprehensive analysis of the human placenta transcriptome. Placenta 35, 2 (2014), 125–131.
42. Lauren M Scott and Mark V Janikas. 2010. Spatial statistics in ArcGIS. In Handbook of applied spatial analysis. Springer, 27–41.
43. JN Siri, Eric Neufeld, Isobel Parkin, and Andrew Sharpe. 2020. Using Simulated Annealing to Declutter Genome Visualizations. In The Thirty-Third International Flairs Conference.
44. Stephen Smart, Keke Wu, and Danielle Albers Szafir. 2020. Color Crafting: Automating the Construction of Designer Quality Color Ramps. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics 26, 1(2020), 1215–1225. https://doi.org/10.1109/TVCG.2019.2934284
45. Danielle Albers Szafir, Maureen Stone, and Michael Gleicher. 2014. Adapting color difference for design. In Color and Imaging Conference, Vol. 2014. Society for Imaging Science and Technology, 228–233.
46. The New York Times. 2007. Close-Ups of the Genome, Species by Species by Species. https://archive.nytimes.com/www.nytimes.com/imagepages/2007/01/22/science/20070123\_SCI\_ILLO.html
47. Miles A Tinker. 1956. Effects of angular alignment upon readability of print.Journal of Educational Psychology 47, 6 (1956), 358.
48. Urmila. 2021. Space Tech Companies and Venture Capitals. https://observablehq.com/@urmilaj/space-tech-companies-and-venture-capitals
49. Manuela Waldner, Alexandra Diehl, Denis Gračanin, Rainer Splechtna, Claudio Delrieux, and Krešimir Matković. 2019. A comparison of radial and linear charts for visualizing daily patterns. IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics 26, 1(2019), 1033–1042.
50. Colin Ware, Helen Purchase, Linda Colpoys, and Matthew McGill. 2002. Cognitive measurements of graph aesthetics. Information visualization 1, 2 (2002), 103–110.
51. Marc Weber, Marc Alexa, and Wolfgang Müller. 2001. Visualizing time-series on spirals.. In Infovis, Vol. 1. 7–14.
52. Daniel Wigdor and Ravin Balakrishnan. 2005. Empirical investigation into the effect of orientation on text readability in tabletop displays. In ECSCW 2005. Springer, 205–224.
53. Jacob O. Wobbrock, Leah Findlater, Darren Gergle, and James J. Higgins. 2011. The Aligned Rank Transform for Nonparametric Factorial Analyses Using Only Anova Procedures. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (Vancouver, BC, Canada) (CHI ’11). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 143–146. https://doi.org/10.1145/1978942.1978963
54. Linda Woodburn, Yalong Yang, and Kim Marriott. 2019. Interactive visualisation of hierarchical quantitative data: an evaluation. In 2019 IEEE Visualization Conference (VIS). IEEE, 96–100.