---
title: Notion Everything - Notion templates, tools & resources
date: 2021-11-04
src_link: https://www.notion.so/Notion-Everything-Find-the-perfect-template-1c4c298f9d52457f8cdf1e8f43d1ecbc
src_date: '2021-11-04 12:22:00'
gold_link: https://www.notioneverything.com/
gold_link_hash: bc8e075a3191514f9828667a89b545a8
tags:
- '#host_www_notioneverything_com'
---

By clicking **“Accept All Cookies”**, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. View our [Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy) for more information.

Privacy Preference CenterWhen you visit websites, they may store or retrieve data in your browser. This storage is often necessary for the basic functionality of the website. The storage may be used for marketing, analytics, and personalization of the site, such as storing your preferences. Privacy is important to us, so you have the option of disabling certain types of storage that may not be necessary for the basic functioning of the website. Blocking categories may impact your experience on the website.[Reject all cookies](#)[Allow all cookies](#)Manage Consent Preferences by CategoryEssential**Always Active**These items are required to enable basic website functionality.AnalyticsEssentialThese items help the website operator understand how its website performs, how visitors interact with the site, and whether there may be technical issues. This storage type usually doesn’t collect information that identifies a visitor.MarketingEssentialThese items are used to deliver advertising that is more relevant to you and your interests. They may also be used to limit the number of times you see an advertisement and measure the effectiveness of advertising campaigns. Advertising networks usually place them with the website operator’s permission.PersonalizationEssentialThese items allow the website to remember choices you make (such as your user name, language, or the region you are in) and provide enhanced, more personal features. For example, a website may provide you with local weather reports or traffic news by storing data about your current location.[Confirm my preferences and close](#)