---
title: Pricing
date: 2021-04-09
src_link: https://www.notion.so/Brain-fm-Music-to-improve-focus-meditation-sleep-dbb7eec0ef71400cbf0c126590841ff2
src_date: '2021-04-09 14:56:00'
gold_link: https://www.brain.fm/pricing
gold_link_hash: e6d66d62f54250bab99442953d7c016e
tags:
- '#host_www_brain_fm'
---

Am I tied to a contract?

Nope! You can cancel at any time from your Account Overview, or by contacting us at [support@brain.fm](mailto:support@brain.fm)

Is my payment going to be secure?

 Yes! Brain.fm forces HTTPS for all services and our payments are processed by Stripe, an internationally
 trusted payment provider certified at the most stringent level available in the industry. We never store your
 credit card or billing information on our servers and are rigorous about our customers' privacy.

Is this binaural beats?

No. Dr. Gerald Oster, who is credited with popularizing the term, ultimately denied that they have any therapeutic use cases. Even so, it has lingered in pop science today.

Although both involve acoustic modulation, Brain.fm uses a unique and patented method, including many other sound features designed to help you reach particular mental states. To give a few examples, our sleep music uses 3D spatialization to produce relaxing auditory motion (‘rocking’), and our focus music filters out high frequencies that can otherwise be distracting.

What's the science behind Brain.fm?

Brain.fm is funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF-STTR#1720698), and research conducted by Brain.fm along with other literature can be found [here](/science).