---
title: "\n      â\x80\x8EAppÂ Store: Enki: Learn Coding/Programming\n    "
date: 2021-09-12
src_link: https://www.notion.so/Enki-Learn-Code-Data-Skills-ENKI-LABS-Inc-b1e84b71e5f540fcb1ccd9ee13363cae
src_date: '2021-09-12 17:31:00'
gold_link: https://apps.apple.com/ru/app/enki-learn-coding-programming/id993753145
gold_link_hash: e7d2db1680d052dda7d28d2307c06e2d
tags:
- '#host_apps_apple_com'
---

Enki is your AI-powered skills coach!  
  
Use it to learn coding, no-code and productivity tools, data skills, and generative AI tools.   
  
Tailored to fit your unique profile and aspirations, Enki is an AI-powered mentor in your pocket that can:  
  
\* Explain any concept in simple language  
\* Help with hints anytime you're stuck  
\* Summarize lessons into key points  
\* Review your code and provide feedback  
\* Provide real-world examples  
\* Translate content and converse in any language  
\* Recommend resources based on your needs  
\* Give career advice more generally  
  
Other features include:  
  
\* Personalized content suggestions based on your learning preferences  
\* Coding playground to apply your knowledge  
\* Interactive questions to stimulate your thinking  
\* Revision workouts powered by spaced repetition science to maximize retention  
\* Daily reminders to help you build a learning habit  
\* Tracked learning streaks to motivate your progress  
\* Lesson bookmarking for quick access and sharing  
  
You can also learn with others in your company, school, or the Enki community by:  
  
\* Engaging in discussions, mentoring other learners, and collaborating on exercises  
\* Teaming up with friends, co-workers, or peers and tracking each other's progress  
\* Sharing your favorite lessons with teammates or online  
  
Access 10,000+ lessons in 30+ skills and tools including:  
  
\* Fundamental coding skills  
\* Coding Basics  
\* Computer Science  
\* Programming languages  
\* From Beginner to Advanced in each  
\* Python  
\* JavaScript  
\* Golang  
\* TypeScript  
\* Java  
\* C++  
\* Artificial Intelligence  
\* Generative AI tools  
\* Machine Learning  
\* Frontend skills  
\* React  
\* Web  
\* HTML  
\* CSS  
\* Data skills  
\* SQL  
\* Data Science  
\* Data Analysis  
\* R  
\* Interview prep & practice  
\* Productivity Tools  
\* Excel & Google Sheets  
\* Zapier  
\* Webflow  
\* Airtable  
\* Blockchain  
\* Bitcoin  
\* NFTs  
\* Other technical topics  
\* Security  
\* Functional Programming  
\* Git  
\* Regex  
\* Docker  
\* MongoDB  
\* Linux  
  
Over 1.5 million people have used Enki to build and improve their coding, data and other critical skills.  
  
What the media say about us:  
  
"The exercises on Enki are focused on making professionals more productive."  
- Forbes  
  
"Ever imagined yourself as a JavaScript whizz, or pulling no punches with Python? Want to get a handle on SQL, or let yourself loose with Linux? Then let Enki be your coding coach, setting you daily workouts that tackle the intricacies of coding languages in bite-sized steps."  
- Apple's App Store; featured as app of the day in 100+ countries  
  
"Compared to free reading options this is structured, personalized content. Enki creates a 5-minute "workout" for you to learn important concepts in your spare time."  
- TechCrunch  
  
"The app supports everyone from beginners to more experienced coders. You can almost think of Enki the same way you would an exercise app. It provides you with daily workouts, but here you're leveling up your coding skills instead of burning fat and building muscle."  
- MakeUseOf  
  
"Enki adopts a different approach to the apps we've seen so far. It makes use of spaced repetition to help you learn specific concepts regarding coding."  
- iGeeksBlog  
  
Subscription pricing and terms:  
  
Enki offers an auto-renewing yearly and monthly subscription to provide you with unlimited access to the Learn Mode features while you maintain an active subscription.  
  
Payment will be charged to the credit card connected to your iTunes Account when you confirm the initial subscription purchase. Subscriptions automatically renew unless auto-renew is turned off at least 24-hours before the end of the current subscription period. Your account will be charged for renewal within 24-hours prior to the end of the current period, and the cost of the renewal will be identified. You may manage your subscription and auto-renewal may be turned off by going to your Account Settings after the purchase.  
  
Read more about our terms and conditions here:  
Terms of service: https://enki.com/terms  
Privacy policy: https://enki.com/privacy