---
title: "\n      â\x80\x8EAppÂ Store: PrismScrollDM\n    "
date: 2021-09-15
src_link: https://www.notion.so/PrismScrollDM-Samuel-Harmon-e0854799dcbf493c9711073616c0c3ad
src_date: '2021-09-15 08:11:00'
gold_link: https://apps.apple.com/ru/app/prismscrolldm/id1408372017
gold_link_hash: ea321623499d59d7ac65d2f09a71076f
tags:
- '#host_apps_apple_com'
---

PrismScrollDM will be the one-stop shop for your storytelling needs in all your Dungeons and Dragons 5th Edition games.   
  
As the first tool, PrismScrollDM acts as your mobile, paperless, and essentially limitless DM Screen on the go! Customize the different tiles to fit your specific needs for each game you manage. With the ability to hide or show all the information, declutter your working area so that you only see the important information, but still have access to everything within a few taps if the need arises. Some of the starting options that we offer include Encounter tables, Conditions, Item Prices, and so many more of the minor rules that everyone tends to forget while playing. The PrismScrollDM Screen will smooth out your games and eliminate the struggle of trying to find that random page with that small rule that decides the crazy outcome of if your adventurers will ascend to godhood.  
  
Features   
1. Customizable DM resource screen with over 75 different resources, including things like roll tables/reference tables/npc generators/and much more!  
2. Scientific style roll calculator for all of your quick calculation needs  
3. Campaign creator that allows you to manage your different games and tailor your tools to your specific game needs  
4. A character web feature that allows you create the bigger picture of your campaign relationships, NPC's and players!  
5. Spell cards for each spell from the Players Handbook, Xanathars, and Sword Coast Adventures Guide with quick roll options  
6. Equipment cards for all of the standard martial/simple ranged/melee weapons, armor, and items with quick roll options for the weapons  
8. Monster cards that include all the respective actions/abilities/stats/traits  
  
Let us know what you think! We would love to hear from you and we thank you in advance:  
1. Our website, prismscroll.com  
2. reviews, we always respond!  
3. Instagram (@prismscroll)  
4. twitter (@prismscroll)  
5. facebook (@prismscroll)